xvi JNTRODUCTION. I.

statesmanship, offended the selfishness os all classes in
the state. It became evident, even to the more sober-
mindcd of the plebeians, that either the struggle be-
tween consuls and tribunes must cease, or the republic-
perish. If the patricians could not do without the
plebeians, the plebeians could not dispense with the
patricians, and if the growing power of the tribunate
drove all but poorer plebeians out of Rome, these
might find that they had been tribuned out of their
political existence. Could not some means be ‹lem‘sed
whereby this perpetual conflict between the arbitrary
jurisdiction of the patrician magistrates and the per-
sonal interference of the tribunes could be obviated2
If the magistrates were bound and restricted in tho
exercise of their functions by a code of laws embodying
in it the rights of the commons, then the necessity for
the tribunician interference would be materially dimi-
nished. Even if the tribunes became unnecessary al-
together, and the patricians demanded as the price of
their consent to a code that the tribunate should be
abolished‚ even that the wiser plebeians felt would bc
preferable to the present anai-chy. So when the pro-
posal of Tarentilius Harsa was made, to appoiut five
men to draw up such a code, the struggle protracted
for ten years between the extreme patriciam, who
thought they could reduce the tribunate without sub-
mitting to a code, and the extreme plebeiam, who
thought that they could reduce the consular powers
without surrendering the tribunate, ended iu a com-
promise‚ by which ten men were elected to draw up a
code of laws. These decemvirs until their work was
completed were to act as supreme magistrates, super-

